hey what's up guys welcome to guitar
tips and tricks my name is Jen today
we're going to be talking about G to B
minor this is a tricky one but you're
going to see it everywhere so just get
used to this B minor make it your friend
not your enemy not your frenemy friend
so I like to play my G like this so I've
got three two open open three three you
can also play
like that so you got this open B string
but this is my favorite way so that's
what we're going to do so what's cool
about this one is you've got your G your
first finger is already in the second
fret so you don't need to be moving
anywhere just lay your first finger down
then add your third finger on the fourth
string fourth fret your pinky right
underneath then your middle finger on
the second string third fret and there's
your B minor now to come back into your
G I'm thinking okay first finger is
already there middle finger comes up to
the sixth string third finger comes down
and down and over to the third fret
second string and then your pinky is in
the third fret first string same so many
numbers today so let's just take that a
little bit take your time
see where your fingers need to go one by
one a lot of beginners make the mistake
of trying to move all their fingers at
the exact same time because that's what
we're used to seeing right when we see
somebody who knows how to play guitar we
go oh look their fingers are moving in
block so I'm going to try to do that
don't worry about that it may be a
little too fast for you so see okay
first finger that's all I'm dealing with
good third finger that's what I'm
dealing with fourth second now I'm
thinking first second third fourth now
as always I'm gonna pull out my
metronome because you know how much I
love my metronome let's do eight beats
except two counts of four try this Oh No
let's make a little slower one two three
four two three four get your fingers
ready two three four strum again one two
three four one two three four get ready
two three four okay now let's take it a
measure each two three four forefinger
independence here just think figure by
finger okay that gives you an idea of
how you're going to approach learning
these chords and learning these tough
transitions don't try to go as fast as
the song that you're trying to learn
you're gonna self-destruct and then
you're going to think that there's
something wrong with you or wrong with
your hands or wrong with your ability
and it's not the case I guarantee it
it's just that it might be a little too
fast and a little too complicated so if
that's the case slow it down and
simplify and that'll be a lot easier and
then slowly work your way up that's it
that's all I got good luck let me know
how it goes